Warning: rambling about Free/Proprietary software.

When one lets a stranger into one's home, it is implicit that the stranger's behavior is generally carefully observed. Strangers should not be left alone with valuables or in areas with sensitive data or information one desires to keep secure.

The same should be true of software. There should be an implicit expectation that programs should perform only the functions necessary to their applications - a music player should not run a hidden cryptocurrency mining script, a notes program should not secretly share the contents of your files, and an operating system should not report your activity without gaining opt-in privileges first. (Some larger software shops need user data. If it is necessary to report and track user activity, it should be transparent and the data should be shown to the user before it is sent. The recently released Ubuntu 18.04's installer prompts the user to send a single file of post-install data to help the developers. It is opt-in and you can see the exact data being sent.)

If there is to be any expectation of security or privacy in a program, its code must necessarily be visible and modifiable. To ensure that a program is doing what it says it does, compiling from visible, audited, free source code is a must. Who is to say what Microsoft's Windows is doing? Running Wireshark on a Windows virtual machine's network adapter is shocking - it transmits a surprising amount of hidden data to Microsoft's servers.

In the past, I've used exclusively free software on everything I can reasonably manage. I've swapped wifi cards on my Thinkpad to run Debian without nonfree packages, installed Lineage on my primary smartphone, used a Raspberry Pi as a desktop, flashed Rockbox on my iPod, and even installed DD-WRT on my router. I've gone all in. I've been there. Software that can be validated and inspected can be trusted, and although it's more placebo than anything real, I felt much more secure using devices I knew I had modified and whose code I could (and had) inspected.

At this point I'm mostly out of that lifestyle. I'm using all the Libre/Open programs I can in my daily life - my notes applications, 2-factor phone app, browsers, and yes, still my iPod firmware - but I'm running Windows at work and at home. I use an iPhone (my work phone). I'm an advocate for Linux and use Fedora on my laptop, but I also enjoy playing Overwatch, Skyrim, and a few other games on my desktop. My family has trapped me in the beautiful prison that is iMessage/Facetime. I'm running commercial, closed-source software on pretty much every single device I use.

But I want to get back in. In my life now, I can afford to trade convenience for idealism, and the idealism I've written about above has come back to the forefront of my mind. If I really care enough about free software to use Linux and recommend it to others, shouldn't I be refusing to use proprietary software myself? (At least in my personal life - work is a different story and I need to use what is provided there.)

So I went and installed a Linux distro on my laptop again, as a stepping stone back into this zone. I'm using free software on my computer at work as much as I can. Any programs I use on my cell phone or my computer, I ensure they're as free as they can be; if there are no alternatives and I must use proprietary software, I suck it up and minimize their usage.

Linux is far more usable than most people would think! 2018 has so many great Linux distributions with beautiful, functional, and productive desktop environments. I've been liking Fedora so far. Gnome is heavy, but Fedora's implementation is very comparatively lean, and the GDM tweaks they have added to support multiple PAM stacks are really nice. SwayWM is a great complement that focuses on being lighter but still looking good. I'd like to try this in my desktop too, but there are a few things I would miss in Windows, namely Powershell (integral to furthering my education and experience at work) and games that don't run on Linux.

This seems like my first stepping stone back to using totally free software. I keep asking myself: how do I get back to that state? Will I be able to eventually live my life and be social and productive using only free software? That's the meme, right - install Gentoo on a decade-old Thinkpad, use only free software on your phone, don't use proprietary services, and lose all your friends because you're basically a religious zealot about a think that nobody understands or cares about.

Despite the drawbacks, I have a real desire to get back to the point where I am running Linux exclusively and running proprietary software like Windows on a case-by-case basis - in a VM with GPU passthrough, for instance. I have the resources, I have the time, and I have the desire. I just need to make it happen. Someday I will be able to compute that the way I know I should - freedom first, convenience second.
