Happy Birthday To Me (2019 Edition)

Hey, I made it another year! That's pretty cool. These have sort of become my "state of the union" pieces, and I look forward to writing them.

While this year was one of the more difficult ones on record, there's a lot that's energized me. I look back at small things, like my writing on this site, my git repositories, and my projects at work, and it's hard not to be amazed at what I've accomplished in a year! I have learned so much, and had so many new and exciting experiences.

However, the state of the world continues to decline. I'm trying so hard to be optimistic, but the way things are going, I don't think that the majority of people are going to put in the effort to dig us out of the mess we're in. It takes too much mental effort, and nobody wants to put that in anymore. People are afraid to speak their mind, especially when it goes against popular opinion. <a href="https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=19215695">I'd rather see a website where I hate every aspect of it, but that was made by a real person with real thoughts in their head</a>. I'd rather disagree with someone and have an intelligent conversation with them, and end up more empathetic, than cuddle inside my soft echo chamber and let the sameness rock me to sleep.

I want things to be challenging again. People need to discard brand loyalty, patriotism, and label-as-identity, and be someone that they can be proud of. Be someone that doesn't fit in a box, and can't be conveniently described in one or two words. I'm challenging you, the reader, to do what you don't like, understand what you disagree with. 

Another thing I heard recently: "we are sleepwalking into dystopia". I can't take credit for the idea, but what does it say when all our media, all our art and culture, is owned by companies like Google, Facebook, Oath (yeah, look them up, bet you didn't know they owned your stuff!), and others. We have handed the reigns to our culture into the robot-claws of these mega-opolies that don't care about people, and will forget you as soon as you can't make them a profit. Your website is on Google Sites and you use Google Photos as the one place for all the pictures of your kids? If you sell your Pixel phone Google will delete your account. If you have a following on Twitter and use it for work, if you say something wrong, they will delete your account. If you use Facebook and don't agree with west-coast hippie-Liberalism, they'll delete your account. But none of these rules are clear - at least with Government entities, it's clear when you've crossed a line, and the rules are written down. 

Another thought for today: I'm typing this on a Lenovo computer. If there's spyware built-in, am I better off hopping over to my HP tower instead? Who would I rather have spying on me - the Chinese government (via Lenovo), who has no sovereignty over me, or the US government and the NSA (via HP and their possible backdoors into my hardware), who does? Food for thought. But the point is moot anyway - my Thinkpad runs Coreboot (with me_cleaner) -> SeaBIOS -> GNU/Linux, so I'm safe... maybe.

Anyway. This post is too long. It's silly and rambling and it's what I'm thinking about on my birthday in 2019.
