Installing Mac Apps is Mystery and Punishment

People often recommend Apple computers because they're 'easier to use'. I would argue that this is not the case.

A common use case when one obtains a new computer and is setting it up for the first time involves downloading and installing one's favorite programs and configuring the settings the way one prefers. (Side note: Using Time Machine backups does not count; this is behavior exhibited primarily by beginner or first time Mac users. Even many long time Mac owners don't use Time Machine. I've found, as startling as it may seem, backups are primarily used by the tech-savvy, and relatives of the tevh-savvy that have backups foisted upon them.)

Where macOS (formerly Mac OS X) excels in the aspect is settings configuration. For every application there is a global menu, and the Cmd+, shortcut works to open preferences in every default (and most third-party) applications. In each application there is a menu bar item called "Help", in which one can search the entire rest of the menus for commands and command shortcuts. This is, without a doubt, the best feature for newcomers to macOS - the ability to find any action, in any application, anywhere.

System preferences are in one location, which is nice - Windows 10's current mess of half-control-panel-half-modern-settings-app is a far cry from what Control Panel was in Windows 7. Many GNU/Linux desktop environments get it right as well - Gnome3, Cinnamon, and KDE Plasma all have great settings applications that are searchable and efficiently categorized.

------

My main complaint with macOS is application installation. There are too many different ways to perform this simple, regular, and necessary action.

In Windows, an installer is either a .exe or .msi, and both generally walk the user through a wizard with options. The installer can be deleted when finished, and the installed program shows up in a list of all the installed programs in a system settings window, where one would expect.

Many options available on GNU/Linux are even better. Package managers offer a command-line solution to application, library, and component acquisition - often, it's as simple as 'dnf in mpv', or 'pacman -S rhythmbox'. Dependency resolution is automatic (if you've ever seen a dialog pop up during a windows installation complaining about the lack of a .NET framework, this is a huge benefit!) and upgrades of all your system's programs at once is seamless.

In Apple's operating system, we'll break down application acquisition into five sections - Mac App Store, .zip file, .dmg file, .pkg file, and 'other'.
1. The Mac App Store (MAS) is the easiest way to obtain applications. Most users would likely prefer to go this route. However, many developers complain about the lack of control they have in the App Store, how sandboxing is an arbitrary requirement that doesn't really even work, how some updates may just get rejected for unclear reasons, and how long things take to be processed. Many applications (for now; this is changing very soon) like Microsoft Office and the Adobe suite aren't distributed through the MAS either. The revenue model is very greedy, the yearly fees are high for smaller developers, and many quality apps that do alter your system in helpful-but-non-sanctioned ways aren't available on the MAS. Development tools are often left out because of the control they require but can't get.
2. Many applications are distributed in .zip files. This is incredibly efficient, but messy - macOS applications can be entirely a single file, and this is quite nice. The file is a container file for other files, but is viewed by the shell as a launchable program. Many users will unzip an application download in their ~/Downloads folder, leave both files there, and run the application from there. This makes no difference to the system - the appropriate ~/Library folders are still put in place and all configs are stored there - but it creates a messy system filled with unnecessary data, especially with multiple users in mind. (Windows applications can come distributed in .zip files too, but this is much less common, and usually reserved for an alternatively distributed "portable" version that stores its configs in the same folder.)
3. Disk Images (.dmg files) are more or less the exact same. They do, however, come with the built-in ability to customize the background and include a shortcut to /Applications, which many do, in order to hint the user into doing the right thing. This is the case with many advanced or savvy users, but many inexperienced users simply launch the program from the disk image. Again, this is inefficient - effectively they're running a compressed application, and it will perform poorly. Many applications complain about being launched from a disk image. Some even prevent their being launched and instead serve a message about copying a file to their computer, which further confuses users - from their perspective, it's already on their computer! I've seen many Macs with a desktop full of mounted drives running various versions of Chrome and other programs.
4. Packaged application installers are the best way to go. They are a traditional wizard used to place the program into the correct location, run scripts to create folders or place other utilities, or download helper programs to assist with first runs. These are much like Windows installers and generally easy enough to use, but will require administrator access to place files in /Applications.
5. I promised an "other" section so here it is. I did not forget about homebrew and other command-line package managers. They're quite useful and have important features like key checking and unified updating, like many GNU/Linux package managers do. These are not officially supported and often cause more trouble than they're worth.

macOS has come a long way since Mac OS X 10.0. This problem has remained endemic for as long as I can remember, and shows no signs of slowing down - if anything, it will likely fragment further. GNU/Linux has gained Snap, Flatpak, and Appimage in the last decade as well, and these are all in addition to the native package management system. Many of these options seem to try and solve a problem that most people just don't seem to have.

There's no feasible way for Apple to fix this themselves, other than moving applications to /Applications immediately when they're run - there are security implications to this though, and non-admin users wouldn't have the permissions. They've put themselves into a tangle and can't really remove any of the options. In a time gone by when installers seemed like bulk and cruft, and many users just clicked through them without reading anyway, the "download zip, extract, and place app in /Applications" method seemed revolutionary. But people are lazy and skip steps. Where there's an idiot-proof system, there will always be a dumber idiot that breaks it.
