Don't waste your time on frivolity. I will detail an experience I had recently where I was confronted with my own such pursuits, and I'll relay to you here what I thought about it.


Over the past two weeks, I've had the pleasure of using a bunch of different systems, configuring them, and messing around with various distros. I decided to take some time to install Gentoo again on my tester laptop, since it's always a fun activity for me. I brought the machine to work after a successful install, intending to tweak a few options during lunch. I sat it on my desk to recompile the kernel and update @world, and I returned to my work.

During the time it was compiling, a coworker walked by my desk. I wasn't interacting with the machine, but the fan was screaming as it used its 4 wimpy threads to crank through compiling Firefox or something. He asked what the heck was going on with this machine, as he knew it was my personal laptop. I told him it was compiling some software, since it was currently running Gentoo. He didn't know Gentoo specifically, so I gave him a 10-second elevator pitch on source-based distros.

Now, this man is a smart man. He's had several decades of experience as our company's network administrator, he's a highly skilled sysadmin, and is always quick on the uptake and sharp as a tack. He always brings an interesting perspective and viewpoint to any discussion, and I have a lot of respect for him. The fact that he didn't really know what Gentoo is specifically essentially says nothing negative about him. If you don't know what Gentoo is either, that doesn't matter.

He gave me a "what the heck are you doing with your life" look, and then asked me if I read every line of source code in Firefox before I set it to compile. "Well, no, but-" "I knew the answer before I asked the question."

What I was doing was useless. It was a waste of time. Gentoo? Really? Chances are, any Linux system that does anything actually important out in the world will be one of these, in order:
Red Hat, SuSE, Ubuntu, CentOS, Debian, and maybe even Fedora and then finally possibly OpenSuSE. (Yes, Alpine and containers, I get it)
The distros that one will never encounter in the wild are, in order of increasing silliness:
Arch, Manjaro, Void, <a href="http://hannahmontana.sourceforge.net/index.html">Hannah Montana Linux</a>, and Gentoo.
Gentoo is a beautiful, well put-together, sensible, and clean distro that no one should ever use. OpenRC is the coolest project I've seen in a long time, building from source is really neat, and setting CFLAGS and USE flags are a super customizable way of building your OS exactly how you want it. Gentoo is amazing, but fundamentally, <a href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/by-others/funroll-loops/Gentoo-is-Rice.html">Gentoo is rice</a> and it really isn't useful for 99.999% of people, even people that are interested in using Linux.

If you want to do something useful, install Ubuntu or Debian or CentOS or Fedora and build a web server. Build an email server in a VM. Build a samba server and have your friends pen-test it to see if you can secure it properly. Do something useful with your time. The reason I run mostly Debian/Fedora/CentOS these days is because 1) my systems are old enough where I don't need bleeding-edge kernels for the new hardware drivers, and 2) the firehose of updates that rolling releases provide is really not for most users.

If you want a rolling release, go with OpenSuSE tumbleweed. It's a little different, but dig into YaST and learn something useful. If you like stability Debian and CentOS have you covered! Fedora is pretty close to bleeding edge, but it's the basis for Red Hat, so you'll actually learn something useful about how the most popular enterprise Linux distro works.

Don't spend your time scrolling through Facebook or attempting to use distros that don't make sense or playing bad games or watching bad movies or reading bad books. Especially if you think that it's applicable in a way, step back and think of what someone more experienced would think of what you're doing.

A good indicator: if you're trying to watch an instructional video on Linux Academy or Pluralsight, and you're struggling to get your laptop working with your bluetooth headphones, maybe you've got the wrong distro. Make it get out of your way so you can actually use it. Stop worrying and just use gnome3 and systemd - they're not my favorite, but they're the defaults everywhere and they're well supported and constantly get better. Ubuntu's not my favorite, and I've written about that before, but guess what's on my wife's computer? That's right, 18.04 LTS (standard gnome desktop).

Stop wasting your time distro-hopping, using things that don't really make a difference. Use what works and get your shit done.
