Addendum to <a href="https://elagost.com/w.php?t=trust.txt">'trust'</a>

There is a developer of a moderately-used set of scripts that I keep up with. He has a website that lists one of those ncurses package installation scripts that's something like "curl https://my.site/install.sh|bash" or whatever. Basically, grab the content of this URL and immediately throw it into a root terminal. (These are a BAD IDEA! But also, if you give someone a harder-than-one-step process to follow, they probably won't follow it. "Paste this into a terminal" is probably too difficult for most users, even.) The software he distributes/develops is good. It's useful and pleasant. It automates installation and configuration of a lot of things for a lot of people. But it's dangerous.

Paraphrasing something this dude has said on an off-the-cuff livestream: "It would be seriously easy for me to put a keylogger [or other malware] into [my software]." 

The point he was trying to make - when you install Windows, and you can't see what's in it, how do you know what it does? Microsoft will tell you that the telemtry data includes anonymized statistics, location information, advertising IDs, and other stuff to make your experince better. You can inspect your traffic at your router, or with Wireshark, or whatever. But you can't tear apart those encrypted packets. You can't see what they're sending. Maybe it's keylogger data. Maybe it's your browsing history, piece by piece. Maybe it's hyper-compressed images and audio of your webcam. Who knows? Most people won't check!

Every single line of code in that script you pipe straight into your terminal could be installing malware, replacing your package manager with a version that points to a malicious software source, scraping your SSH keys from your home folder, whatever. It could be doing all of it. It would be so easy to put out a popular piece of software that installed something ever-so-slightly off (say, installing a package from archIinux.org instead of archlinux.org) that you won't notice, and then they own your entire infrastructure!

The point is - check what you run. Read the scripts you execute. Install software that's safe, verified from the appropriate sources. Keep your installation profile to an absolute minimum - do you really need that super-bloated program that pulls in 17 dependencies that you don't know about?

In a computationally centric society, when you don't have control over your computing, whoever does have control over you.
Good examples are allowing for-profite businesses to decide what software you can use and therefore how you communicate with others. The same goes for letting others see your private communications or potentially alter the messages in any way. When Company X controls your email, how are you able to use email without them watching? How can your friends and family communicate with you if they don't trust Company X?
Free software becomes paramount to freedom at all, in general. It is not foolproof and Free Software alone will not save you, but removing proprietary software from your life is the most basic, necessary starting point, if you wish to be free.
